Prince William May Not Attend Royal Wedding Leaving Harry Without a Best Man; Princess Diana Would Not Be Happy
No one likely ever thought that Prince William would miss his little brother's wedding. Sadly, it might just happen.  The latest news from sources is that Prince William is in the middle of a huge predicament, one that could change relationships.  Prince William has to choose to either go to Prince Harry's wedding and stand by his side as the best man or choose to attend a soccer game.  While for most of us it seems like an easy choice. Family over soccer. However, for Prince William, it won't be so easy.  Saturday is not just the big Royal wedding; it's also England's Football Association Cup final against Manchester United and Chelsea. He is expected to be there.  Knowing what we know about Prince William, he would rather be at the wedding than at a soccer game. However, it's not just a soccer game and he's not just a spectator, he's the FA president. He has been for over a decade.  Each and every year, the FA president is expected to be in attendance at the final game at Wembley Stadium. The president's job is also to award the final cup trophy to the winning team.  This long-standing tradition and a popular England sporting event will be a hard one for Prince William to miss.  While this quandary isn't unexpected news to Prince William, he's been thinking about it for months. In an interview with radio broadcaster Rio Ferdinand in January, he expressed his upcoming dilemma.  “It’s a big decision, are we going to Wembley, or are we going to...?” William asking Rio. “You’ve touched on something there, Rio, yeah. I’m still working it out. I’ll see what I can do.”  Even though both events are happening the same day, he may be able to attend both. The wedding is at noon, and the soccer game is at 5:30 p.m.  Being 20 miles apart from each other, he could attend the reception at St. George's Chapel and take his helicopter to Wembley to present the trophy. After that, he could travel back to the evening reception at the Frogmore House.  There is no final word yet as to what Prince William will do. Let's hope he can pull it off!  Do you think he can? Let us know in the comment section!  https://rumble.com/embed/u9sgx.v1e83z/  In other news, a famous athlete dies in a horrendous car crash after dropping his kids off at school. The family is requesting prayers.
a man in a suit and day is standing in a room.