ABC News Joins Obama In Ban Of American Flag Lapel Pins, Here’s What You Need To Know
The brass at ABC News issued orders forbidding reporters to wear lapel pin American flags or other patriotic insignia. Their reasoning was that ABC should remain neutral about “causes”.  Since when is support for preventing our death & destruction some sort of a cause? Since when is patriotism to be discouraged?  I urge you to boycott ABC and its sponsors and affiliates. Here’s the email that many people have been receiving in their inboxes. Please share this with as many as you can.  This is just insane and I will be wearing my Pin with pride. The attacks on our Patriotism seem to be growing and we need to make sure our freedom is protected.  The American Flag is a symbol of pride in our country and they are trying to take that away. Many American’s have responded to this and the reactions show us that we have a long way to go.  The issue first came up in October 2007 when a reporter with KCRG-TV in Iowa, asked him, “You don’t have the American flag pin on. Is that a fashion statement?”  Obama said: “You know, the truth is that right after 9/11, I had a pin. Shortly after 9/11, particularly because as we’re talking about the Iraq War, that became a substitute for I think true patriotism, which is speaking out on issues that are of importance to our national security, I decided I won’t wear that pin on my chest. Instead, I’m going to try to tell the American people what I believe will make this country great, and hopefully that will be a testimony to my patriotism.”  It’s no surprise that this is happening. When Obama was running for President he was caught several times without his lapel pin and even citizens questioned him on it.  Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos rolled video of a voter from Latrobe, Pa.: “Senator Obama, I have a question, and I want to know if you believe in the American flag. I am not questioning your patriotism, but all our servicemen, policemen and EMS wear the flag. I want to know why you don’t.”  This needs to be all over Facebook today. Spread the word!
a group of people standing around a table with a crowd of people.