NASA Will Pay You $100,000 To Stay In Bed For 60 Days!
Wouldn’t you just love to carry on sleeping on a Monday morning without having to submit to the Monday morning blues and get ready for work? What type of heaven would you envisage if you were paid to stay in bed; it would be a glorious one wouldn’t it? If only it were possible!!! But!! Hold it right there, don’t be disappointed because what if we told you it is possible!! You can get paid a huge sum of money just staying in bed for two whole months and by you know who?? NASA no less!!!  Yes the American space agency NASA is paying $100,000 to stay in bed for 60 days. Find out why and if it is really too good to be true.  Most of us dream about hanging out in bed, all day, every day, and getting paid for it! Well, it turns out NASA are making our dreams a reality. A few lucky candidates are getting paid an obscene amount of money just to chill in bed all day.  NASA is currently on the lookout for people to participate in their “Bed Rest Studies”, in which participants will have to stay in bed for 60 days straight.  It does sound like the dream job, right? But how long do you think you could last without going insane.  I would definitely treat the 60 days like a job, and whenever I felt like I’d had enough, I’d just think of all the things I could buy with the money.  You wouldn’t just be sleeping you can keep yourself occupied with books, TV, video games, and they can also use their phones as they please!  As long as they remain laying down. You’re probably thinking what on earth is the point in this experiment.  NASA want to study how the body reacts to extended periods of rest for astronauts who are going on extended periods of space travel.  NASA says the experiments is designed to achieve three things:  Understanding how one’s changing physiology in space may affect the process of certain missions.  Understanding the impact of one’s physiological state on their ability to perform in particular tasks.  Preparing countermeasures to combat any impairment that these physiological conditions may impose.  The experiment will consist of two categories.  The exercising group, are able to exercise using special tools that help them stay active while still lying down. While non-exercising groups must stay completely at rest the entire time.  During the entirety of the study, bone, muscle and heart tests, will be done.  As well as tests of the circulatory and nervous systems, nutritional condition, and the body’s capacity to fight off infections are conducted.
a man is sitting on a bench with a dog.