Twitter Caught Leaking Donald Trump's Private Messages in Undercover Sting
Twitter Caught Leaking Donald Trump's Private Messages in Undercover Sting  Senior Twitter engineer caught on video boasting during Project Veritas investigation  © Neon Nettle / YouTube An investigation by Project Veritas found Twitter is leaking Donald Trump's private data  An undercover investigation by Project Veritas has uncovered mass political bias at the highest levels of Twitter.  One of Twitter's senior engineers has admitted to hacking the president's private data and leaking it to the Department of Justice to "help with their little investigation."  The high-level engineer, Clay Haynes, a self-confessed "bleeding-heart liberal," boasted to covert investigators that his team can access all activity of every user on the site, and can even retrieve deleted messages.  After confessing that the social media sites extreme monitoring of its users was "big brother-ish," he admitted that Twitter disclosed all of Donald Trump's messages to the DOJ, saying:  "Even the ones he’s deleted, any direct messages"  © Youtube The investigation into Twitter was conducted by Project Veritas  A Project Veritas undercover investigation has revealed a senior network security engineer at Twitter stating that his company is “more than happy” to turn over the private communications and deleted tweets of President Donald Trump to the Department of Justice.  If true, it is yet unknown whether Twitter is voluntarily disclosing this sensitive information or acting under a court order.  © Youtube Senior engineer Clay Haynes admitted to leaking he president's private messages  Twitter is currently in the midst of defending itself from left-leaning criticism that President Trump hasn’t been removed from the enormous media platform for violations of Twitter’s Terms of Service.  According to his LinkedIn profile, Clay Haynes has been employed by Twitter since September 2016. On January 3, 2018, he met with a Project Veritas undercover journalist (UCJ) at Stookey's Club Moderne in San Francisco.  © Youtube James O’Keefe went undercover to expose Twitter  Using a hidden video camera, the Veritas UCJ captures Haynes stating that “we’re more than happy to help the DOJ with their little investigation” of President Trump.  When prompted by the UCJ, Mr. Haynes provides additional details, “Basically, giving them every single tweet that he’s posted. Even the ones he’s deleted, any direct messages, any mentions…”  © Youtube Clay Haynes boasts that Twitter can access anyone's private data  “…he’s dangerous, I don’t like him and he’s a terrible human being and I want to get rid of him,” the self-described bleeding-heart liberal Haynes says in the video about President Trump.  “In fact, we had internal reviews about that…”  On January 7, 2018, James O’Keefe himself went undercover with Haynes at Morton’s Steakhouse in San Francisco to confirm if Twitter was working with the Department of Justice to hand over Trump’s tweets and DMs.  © Youtube Twitter's senior engineer boasting about leaking Donald Trump's data  When pressed about looking at Donald Trump’s messages, Haynes explained: “We have a subpoena process for that very reason.”  The conversation continued:  James O’Keefe: “Are you working with DOJ currently on that?” Clay Haynes: “I can’t comment, even if I knew, I wouldn’t comment.”  © Youtube Twitter has access to all user's private data according to Haynes  “The fact is, even if Haynes was just speculating about helping Justice, his admission shows a clear and dangerous political bias at the highest levels of Twitter,” says Project Veritas founder and President James O’Keefe in the video.  “The question is: by Twitter giving private information about the President to the Justice Department, are they breaking the law, betraying a trust, following an official request or satisfying a political agenda by leading a crusade against the President.”  © PV Project Veritas exposed political bias at the highest levels of Twitter  Describing himself as the bouncer of the network, Mr. Haynes also details the level of information Twitter retains in its databases about their hundreds of millions of users.  The Project Veritas Twitter investigation is the fourth installment of its American Pravda series.  In Part I, Veritas disclosed that CNN's Russia coverage is driven by ratings and a political agenda, but in reality, using the words of CNN Political Commentator Van Jones is just a “nothing burger.”  © Youtube Clay Haynes is a self-confessed 'bleeding-heart liberal'  Part II disclosed a political bias at The New York Times which forced executive responses and an immediate change of their social media policy.  Part III exposed political bias at The Washington Post and brought to light that the far-reaching narratives of the paper’s editorial board are not rooted in the factual findings of their subject-matter expert reporters.  © Youtube Clay Haynes reveals political bias at Twitter  Project Veritas will be releasing additional Twitter-related videos over the next several days.
a man in a suit and day is standing in a room.